Update observability prometheus content documentation (#1599)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/ui-api/observability/prometheus/volume-size/index.md

---
linkTitle: Prometheus Volume Size
title: Prometheus Volume Sizing
description: A guide explaining how to resize the Prometheus persistent volume to fit your needs
weight: 50
menu:
  main:
    identifier: uiapi-observability-prometheusvolumesize
    parent: uiapi-observability-prometheus
user_questions:

>   - How can I downsize the persistent volume of the Giant Swarm managed Prometheus?

Reviewer: Consider (author's choice):
```suggestion
  - How can I shrink the persistent volume of the Giant Swarm managed Prometheus?
```
or `reduce the size of`.

Just because that might be how I'd search for the topic rather than downsize.

  - How can I expand the persistent volume of the Giant Swarm managed Prometheus?
  - Why would I resize the Giant Swarm managed Prometheus persistent volume ?
aliases:
  - /observability/prometheus/volume-size
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
last_review_date: 2022-10-26
---

In this document you will learn how to size the Prometheus persistent volume.

> Prometheus uses a persistent volume to store its recorded metrics and for historical reasons, we decided to define the needed capacity to 100Gi per cluster (Workload and management clusters alike).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus uses a persistent volume to store its recorded metrics and, for historical reasons, we decided to define the needed capacity to 100Gi per cluster (Workload and management clusters alike).
```

__Warning:__ 
* This feature and the documentation is quite new, so do not hesitate to ask for support or help us improve this documentation.

## Why would I like to resize the volume

> Our observability architecture is based on one Prometheus instance by workload cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our observability architecture is based on one Prometheus instance per workload cluster.
```

> As mentioned above, Prometheus volume is set to 100Gi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, the Prometheus volume is set to 100Gi.
```

This capacity is the same for a small or a large cluster.

Imagine that you want to create multiple testing clusters for a training.
You don't need to have 100Gi reserved for each cluster.

> It will be interesting to set a smaller size for each Prometheus volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It would be useful to set a smaller size for each Prometheus volume.
```

> In an other hand, if you have large clusters with lots of traffic, and so lots of metrics to store, you might like to set a larger size for each Prometheus volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, if you have large clusters with lots of traffic, and so lots of metrics to store, you might like to set a larger size for each Prometheus volume.
```

## How can I resize Prometheus volume
The Prometheus volume size can be set on the cluster CR using the dedicated annotation `monitoring.giantswarm.io/prometheus-volume-size`

Three values are possible:
* `small` = 30 Gi
* `medium` = 100 Gi
* `large` = 200 Gi

> `medium` is the default value, so if the annotation is not set, so the volume size will be created a size of 100Gi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`medium` is the default value, so if the annotation is not set, the volume will be created with a size of 100Gi.
```

Below is an example of a cluster CR defining a small Prometheus volume:
```
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  generation: 1
  annotations:
    cluster.giantswarm.io/description: AWS Production Cluster.
    monitoring.giantswarm.io/prometheus-volume-size: small
  labels:
    tag.provider.giantswarm.io/Environment: PROD
    cluster-operator.giantswarm.io/version: 2.3.0
    giantswarm.io/cluster: nzr5z
    giantswarm.io/organization: acme
    release.giantswarm.io/version: 11.4.0
  name: nzr5z
  namespace: default
spec:
  infrastructureRef:
    apiVersion: infrastructure.giantswarm.io/v1alpha2
    kind: AWSCluster
    name: nzr5z:
    namespace: default
```

## Limitations

> * __Expanding__: It is currently impossible to expand volume size on Openstack. We are working on a fix and will adjust the documentation accordingly when available. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __Expanding__: It is currently impossible to expand the Prometheus volume on OpenStack. We are working on a fix and will adjust the documentation accordingly when available. 
```

> * __Downsizing__: be aware that reducing the volume size will cause a data loss.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* __Downsizing__: be aware that reducing the volume size will cause data loss.
```

---
linkTitle: Prometheus Volume Size

> title: Prometheus VolumeSize

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Prometheus Volume Sizing
```

> description: A guide explaining how to size the Prometheus persistent volume

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: A guide explaining how to resize the Prometheus persistent volume to fit your needs
```

menu:
  main:
    identifier: uiapi-observability-prometheusvolumesize
    parent: uiapi-observability-prometheus
user_questions:

>   - How can I downsize the persistent volume?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - How can I downsize the persistent volume of my managed prometheus?
```

>   - How can I downsize the persistent volume?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - How can I downsize the persistent volume of the Giant Swarm managed prometheus?
```

>   - How can I downsize the persistent volume?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - How can I downsize the persistent volume of the Giant Swarm managed Prometheus?
```

>   - How do I expand the Prometheus volume?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - How can I expand the persistent volume size of the Giant Swarm managed prometheus?
```

>   - How do I expand the Prometheus volume?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - How can I expand the persistent volume of the Giant Swarm managed prometheus?
```

>   - How do I expand the Prometheus volume?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - How can I expand the persistent volume of the Giant Swarm managed Prometheus?
```

>   - Why would I like to resize the Prometheus persistent volume ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Why would I resize the Giant Swarm managed Prometheus persistent volume ?
```

aliases:
  - /observability/prometheus/volume-size
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/team-atlas
---

In this document you will learn how to size the Prometheus persistent volume.

__Warning:__ 

> * The volume expansion on OpenStack clusters is currently not working properly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I would remove as it's added at the beginning

* Downsizing the persistent volume will cause a data loss
* This feature and the documentation is quite new, so do not hesitate to ask for support or help us improve this documentation.

## Introduction to persistent volume

> Each Prometheus instance needs a persistent volume to store the recorded metrics.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prometheus uses a persistent volume to store its recorded metrics and for historical reasons, we decided to define the needed capacity to 100Gi per cluster (Workload and management clusters alike).
```

Reviewer 2: I would Remove the introduction and write this before the warnings. The rest of the introduciotn seems redundant to me

Persistent storage is crucial to be able to retrieve metrics data even when Prometheus instance is dead.
Before implementing the volume resizing feature, the volume attached of each Prometheus instance had a capacity of 100Gi.

## Why would I like to resize the volume
Our observability architecture is based on one Prometheus instance by workload cluster.
As mentioned above, Prometheus volume is set to 100Gi.
This capacity is the same for a small or a large cluster.

Imagine that you want to create multiple testing clusters for a training.
You don't need to have 100Gi reserved for each cluster.
It will be interesting to set a smaller size for each Prometheus volume.

In an other hand, if you have large clusters with lots of traffic, and so lots of metrics to store, you might like to set a larger size for each Prometheus volume.

## How can I resize Prometheus volume

> The Prometheus volume size can be set in the cluster CR by a dedicated annotation `monitoring.giantswarm.io/prometheus-volume-size`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Prometheus volume size can be set on the cluster CR using the dedicated annotation `monitoring.giantswarm.io/prometheus-volume-size`
```

Three values are possible:

> * `small`

Reviewer 2: How about we write it:
* `small` = 30 Gi instead?

* `medium`
* `large`

`small` represents 30Gi, `medium` represents 100Gi and `large` represents 200Gi.

> `medium` is the default value, it means if the annotation doesn't exist, so the volume size will be 100Gi.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`medium` is the default value, so if the annotation is not set, the the volume size will be created a size of 100Gi.
```

> Below is an example of a cluster CR that defines a small Prometheus volume:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is an example of a cluster CR defining a small Prometheus volume:
```

```
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1alpha2
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  generation: 1
  annotations:
    cluster.giantswarm.io/description: AWS Production Cluster.
    monitoring.giantswarm.io/prometheus-volume-size: small
  labels:
    tag.provider.giantswarm.io/Environment: PROD
    cluster-operator.giantswarm.io/version: 2.3.0
    giantswarm.io/cluster: nzr5z
    giantswarm.io/organization: acme
    release.giantswarm.io/version: 11.4.0
  name: nzr5z
  namespace: default
spec:
  infrastructureRef:
    apiVersion: infrastructure.giantswarm.io/v1alpha2
    kind: AWSCluster
    name: nzr5z:
    namespace: default
```

## Limitations

> * __Expanding__: we are encountering an issue with OpenStack clusters and the expanding feature. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* __Expanding__: It is currently impossible to expand volume size on Openstack. We are working on a fix and will adjust the documentation accordingly when available. 
```
